E1A01 (D) [97.305, 97.307(b)]
Why is it not legal to transmit a 3 kHz bandwidth USB signal with a carrier frequency of 14.348 MHz?
A. USB is not used on 20-meter phone
B. The lower 1 kHz of the signal is outside the 20-meter band
C. 14.348 MHz is outside the 20-meter band
D. The upper 1 kHz of the signal is outside the 20-meter band
~~
E1A02 (D) [97.301, 97.305]
When using a transceiver that displays the carrier frequency of phone signals, which of the following displayed frequencies represents the lowest frequency at which a properly adjusted LSB emission will be totally within the band?
A. The exact lower band edge
B. 300 Hz above the lower band edge
C. 1 kHz above the lower band edge
D. 3 kHz above the lower band edge
~~
E1A03 (C) [97.305, 97.307(b)]
What is the highest legal carrier frequency on the 20-meter band for transmitting a 2.8 kHz wide USB data signal?
A. 14.0708 MHz
B. 14.1002 MHz
C. 14.1472 MHz
D. 14.3490 MHz
~~
E1A04 (C) [97.301, 97.305]
May an Extra class operator answer the CQ of a station on 3.601 MHz LSB phone?
A. Yes, the entire signal will be inside the SSB allocation for Extra class operators
B. Yes, the displayed frequency is within the 75-meter phone band segment
C. No, the sideband components will extend beyond the edge of the phone band segment
D. No, US stations are not permitted to use phone emissions below 3.610 MHz
~~
E1A05 (C) [97.5]
Who must be in physical control of the station apparatus of an amateur station aboard any vessel or craft that is documented or registered in the United States?
A. Only a person with an FCC Marine Radio license grant
B. Only a person named in an amateur station license grant
C. Any person holding an FCC issued amateur license or who is authorized for alien reciprocal operation
D. Any person named in an amateur station license grant or a person holding an unrestricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit
~~
E1A06 (B) [97.303(h)(1)]
What is the required transmit frequency of a CW signal for channelized 60 meter operation?
A. At the lowest frequency of the channel
B. At the center frequency of the channel
C. At the highest frequency of the channel
D. On any frequency where the signal?s sidebands are within the channel
~~
E1A07 (C) [97.313(k)]
What is the maximum power permitted on the 2200-meter band?
A. 50 watts PEP (peak envelope power)
B. 100 watts PEP (peak envelope power)
C. 1 watt EIRP (equivalent isotropic radiated power)
D. 5 watts EIRP (equivalent isotropic radiated power)
~~
E1A08 (B) [97.219]
If a station in a message forwarding system inadvertently forwards a message that is in violation of FCC rules, who is primarily accountable for the rules violation?
A. The control operator of the packet bulletin board station
B. The control operator of the originating station
C. The control operators of all the stations in the system
D. The control operators of all the stations in the system not authenticating the source from which they accept communications
~~
E1A09 (D) [97.313(l)]
Except in some parts of Alaska, what is the maximum power permitted on the 630-meter band?
A. 50 watts PEP (peak envelope power)
B. 100 watts PEP (peak envelope power)
C. 1 watt EIRP (equivalent isotropic radiated power)
D. 5 watts EIRP (equivalent isotropic radiated power)
~~
E1A10 (A) [97.11]
If an amateur station is installed aboard a ship or aircraft, what condition must be met before the station is operated?
A. Its operation must be approved by the master of the ship or the pilot in command of the aircraft
B. The amateur station operator must agree not to transmit when the main radio of the ship or aircraft is in use
C. The amateur station must have a power supply that is completely independent of the main ship or aircraft power supply
D. The amateur station must operate only in specific segments of the amateur service HF and VHF bands
~~
E1A11 (B) [97.5]
What licensing is required when operating an amateur station aboard a US-registered vessel in international waters?
A. Any amateur license with an FCC Marine or Aircraft endorsement
B. Any FCC-issued amateur license
C. Only General class or higher amateur licenses
D. An unrestricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit
~~
E1B Station restrictions and special operations: restrictions on station location; general operating restrictions; spurious emissions; antenna structure restrictions; RACES operations

E1B01 (D) [97.3]
Which of the following constitutes a spurious emission?
A. An amateur station transmission made without the proper call sign identification
B. A signal transmitted to prevent its detection by any station other than the intended recipient
C. Any transmitted signal that unintentionally interferes with another licensed radio station and whose levels exceed 40 dB below the fundamental power level
D. An emission outside the signal?s necessary bandwidth that can be reduced or eliminated without affecting the information transmitted
~~
E1B02 (A) [97.307(f)(2)]
Which of the following is an acceptable bandwidth for digital voice or slow-scan TV transmissions made on the HF amateur bands?
A. 3 kHz
B. 10 kHz
C. 15 kHz
D. 20 kHz
~~
E1B03 (A) [97.13]
Within what distance must an amateur station protect an FCC monitoring facility from harmful interference?
A. 1 mile
B. 3 miles
C. 10 miles
D. 30 miles
~~
E1B04 (C) [97.303(b)]
What must the control operator of a repeater operating in the 70-centimeter band do if a radiolocation system experiences interference from that repeater?
A. Reduce the repeater antenna HAAT (Height Above Average Terrain)
B. File an FAA NOTAM (Notice to Air Missions) with the repeater system's ERP, call sign, and six-character grid locator
C. Cease operation or make changes to the repeater that mitigate the interference
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1B05 (C) [97.3]
What is the National Radio Quiet Zone?
A. An area surrounding the FCC monitoring station in Laurel, Maryland
B. An area in New Mexico surrounding the White Sands Test Area
C. An area surrounding the National Radio Astronomy Observatory
D. An area in Florida surrounding Cape Canaveral
~~
E1B06 (A) [97.15]
Which of the following additional rules apply if you are erecting an amateur station antenna structure at a site at or near a public use airport?
A. You may have to notify the Federal Aviation Administration and register it with the FCC as required by Part 17 of the FCC rules
B. You may have to enter the height above ground in meters, and the latitude and longitude in degrees, minutes, and seconds on the FAA website
C. You must file an Environmental Impact Statement with the EPA before construction begins
D. You must obtain a construction permit from the airport zoning authority per Part 119 of the FAA regulations
~~
E1B07 (C) [97.15]
To what type of regulations does PRB-1 apply?
A. Homeowners associations
B. FAA tower height limits
C. State and local zoning
D. Use of wireless devices in vehicles
~~
E1B08 (D) [97.121]
What limitations may the FCC place on an amateur station if its signal causes interference to domestic broadcast reception, assuming that the receivers involved are of good engineering design?
A. The amateur station must cease operation
B. The amateur station must cease operation on all frequencies below 30 MHz
C. The amateur station must cease operation on all frequencies above 30 MHz
D. The amateur station must avoid transmitting during certain hours on frequencies that cause the interference
~~
E1B09 (C) [97.407]
Which amateur stations may be operated under RACES rules?
A. Only those club stations licensed to Amateur Extra class operators
B. Any FCC-licensed amateur station except a Technician class
C. Any FCC-licensed amateur station certified by the responsible civil defense organization for the area served
D. Only stations meeting the FCC Part 97 technical standards for operation during an emergency
~~
E1B10 (A) [97.407]
What frequencies are authorized to an amateur station operating under RACES rules?
A. All amateur service frequencies authorized to the control operator
B. Specific segments in the amateur service MF, HF, VHF, and UHF bands
C. Specific local government channels
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1B11 (B) [97.15]
What does PRB-1 require of state and local regulations affecting amateur radio antenna size and structures?
A. No limitations may be placed on antenna size or placement
B. Reasonable accommodations of amateur radio must be made
C. Such structures must be permitted when use for emergency communications can be demonstrated
D. Such structures must be permitted if certified by a registered professional engineer
~~
E1C Automatic and remote control; band-specific regulations; operating in and communicating with foreign countries; spurious emission standards; HF modulation index limit; band-specific rules

E1C01 (D) [97.303]
What is the maximum bandwidth for a data emission on 60 meters?
A. 60 Hz
B. 170 Hz
C. 1.5 kHz
D. 2.8 kHz
~~
E1C02 (C) [97.117]
Which of the following apply to communications transmitted to amateur stations in foreign countries?
A. Third party traffic must be limited to that intended for the exclusive use of government and non-Government Organization (NGOs) involved in emergency relief activities
B. All transmissions must be in English
C. Communications must be limited to those incidental to the purpose of the amateur service and remarks of a personal nature
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1C03 (B) [97.303(g)]
How long must an operator wait after filing a notification with the Utilities Technology Council (UTC) before operating on the 2200-meter or 630-meter band?
A. Operators must not operate until approval is received
B. Operators may operate after 30 days, providing they have not been told that their station is within 1 kilometer of PLC systems using those frequencies
C. Operators may not operate until a test signal has been transmitted in coordination with the local power company
D. Operations may commence immediately, and may continue unless interference is reported by the UTC
~~
E1C04 (A)
What is an IARP?
A. A permit that allows US amateurs to operate in certain countries of the Americas
B. The internal amateur radio practices policy of the FCC
C. An indication of increased antenna reflected power
D. A forecast of intermittent aurora radio propagation
~~
E1C05 (B) [97.221(c)(1), 97.115(c)]
Under what situation may a station transmit third party communications while being automatically controlled?
A. Never
B. Only when transmitting RTTY or data emissions
C. Only when transmitting SSB or CW
D. On any mode approved by the National Telecommunication and Information Administration
~~
E1C06 (C)
Which of the following is required in order to operate in accordance with CEPT rules in foreign countries where permitted?
A. You must identify in the official language of the country in which you are operating
B. The US embassy must approve of your operation
C. You must have a copy of FCC Public Notice DA 16-1048
D. You must append "/CEPT" to your call sign
~~
E1C07 (D) [97.303(g)]
What notifications must be given before transmitting on the 630- or 2200-meter bands?
A. A special endorsement must be requested from the FCC
B. An environmental impact statement must be filed with the Department of the Interior
C. Operators must inform the FAA of their intent to operate, giving their call sign and distance to the nearest runway
D. Operators must inform the Utilities Technology Council (UTC) of their call sign and coordinates of the station
~~
E1C08 (B) [97.213]
What is the maximum permissible duration of a remotely controlled station?s transmissions if its control link malfunctions?
A. 30 seconds
B. 3 minutes
C. 5 minutes
D. 10 minutes
~~
E1C09 (B) [97.307]
What is the highest modulation index permitted at the highest modulation frequency for angle modulation below 29.0 MHz?
A. 0.5
B. 1.0
C. 2.0
D. 3.0
~~
E1C10 (A) [97.307]
What is the maximum mean power level for a spurious emission below 30 MHz with respect to the fundamental emission?
A. - 43 dB
B. - 53 dB
C. - 63 dB
D. - 73 dB
~~
E1C11 (A) [97.5]
Which of the following operating arrangements allows an FCC-licensed US citizen to operate in many European countries, and amateurs from many European countries to operate in the US?
A. CEPT
B. IARP
C. ITU reciprocal license
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1C12 (D) [97.305(c)]
In what portion of the 630-meter band are phone emissions permitted?
A. None
B. Only the top 3 kHz
C. Only the bottom 3 kHz
D. The entire band
~~
E1D Amateur Space and Earth stations; telemetry and telecommand rules; identification of balloon transmissions; one-way communications

E1D01 (A) [97.3]
What is the definition of telemetry?
A. One-way transmission of measurements at a distance from the measuring instrument
B. Two-way transmissions in excess of 1000 feet
C. Two-way transmissions of data
D. One-way transmission that initiates, modifies, or terminates the functions of a device at a distance
~~
E1D02 (B) [97.211(b)]
Which of the following may transmit encrypted messages?
A. Telecommand signals to terrestrial repeaters
B. Telecommand signals from a space telecommand station
C. Auxiliary relay links carrying repeater audio
D. Mesh network backbone nodes
~~
E1D03 (B) [97.3(a)(45)]
What is a space telecommand station?
A. An amateur station located on the surface of the Earth for communication with other Earth stations by means of Earth satellites
B. An amateur station that transmits communications to initiate, modify, or terminate functions of a space station
C. An amateur station located in a satellite or a balloon more than 50 kilometers above the surface of the Earth
D. An amateur station that receives telemetry from a satellite or balloon more than 50 kilometers above the surface of the Earth
~~
E1D04 (A) [97.119(a)]
Which of the following is required in the identification transmissions from a balloon-borne telemetry station?
A. Call sign
B. The output power of the balloon transmitter
C. The station's six-character Maidenhead grid locator
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1D05 (D) [97.213(d)]
What must be posted at the location of a station being operated by telecommand on or within 50 kilometers of the Earth?s surface?
A. A photocopy of the station license
B. A label with the name, address, and telephone number of the station licensee
C. A label with the name, address, and telephone number of the control operator
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1D06 (A) [97.215(c)]
What is the maximum permitted transmitter output power when operating a model craft by telecommand?
A. 1 watt
B. 2 watts
C. 5 watts
D. 100 watts
~~
E1D07 (A) [97.207]
Which of the following HF amateur bands include allocations for space stations?
A. 40 meters, 20 meters, 15 meters, and 10 meters
B. 30 meters, 17 meters, and 10 meters
C. Only 10 meters
D. Satellite operation is permitted on all HF bands
~~
E1D08 (D) [97.207]
Which VHF amateur bands have frequencies authorized for space stations?
A. 6 meters and 2 meters
B. 6 meters, 2 meters, and 1.25 meters
C. 2 meters and 1.25 meters
D. 2 meters
~~
E1D09 (B) [97.207]
Which UHF amateur bands have frequencies authorized for space stations?
A. 70 centimeters only
B. 70 centimeters and 13 centimeters
C. 70 centimeters and 33 centimeters
D. 33 centimeters and 13 centimeters
~~
E1D10 (B) [97.211]
Which amateur stations are eligible to be telecommand stations of space stations, subject to the privileges of the class of operator license held by the control operator of the station?
A. Any amateur station approved by AMSAT
B. Any amateur station so designated by the space station licensee
C. Any amateur station so designated by the ITU
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1D11 (D) [97.209]
Which amateur stations are eligible to operate as Earth stations?
A. Any amateur licensee who has successfully completed the AMSAT space communications course
B. Only those of General, Advanced or Amateur Extra class operators
C. Only those of Amateur Extra class operators
D. Any amateur station, subject to the privileges of the class of operator license held by the control operator
~~
E1D12 (A) [97.207(e), 97.203(g)]
Which of the following amateur stations may transmit one-way communications?
A. A space station, beacon station, or telecommand station
B. A local repeater or linked repeater station
C. A message forwarding station or automatically controlled digital station
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1E Volunteer examiner program: definitions; qualifications; preparation and administration of exams; reimbursement; accreditation; question pools; documentation requirements

E1E01 (A) [97.527]
For which types of out-of-pocket expenses do the Part 97 rules state that VEs and VECs may be reimbursed?
A. Preparing, processing, administering, and coordinating an examination for an amateur radio operator license
B. Teaching an amateur operator license examination preparation course
C. No expenses are authorized for reimbursement
D. Providing amateur operator license examination preparation training materials
~~
E1E02 (C) [97.523]
Who is tasked by Part 97 with maintaining the pools of questions for all US amateur license examinations?
A. The VEs
B. The FCC
C. The VECs
D. The ARRL
~~
E1E03 (C) [97.521]
What is a Volunteer Examiner Coordinator?
A. A person who has volunteered to administer amateur operator license examinations
B. An organization paid by the volunteer examiner team to publicize and schedule examinations
C. An organization that has entered into an agreement with the FCC to coordinate, prepare, and administer amateur operator license examinations
D. The person who has entered into an agreement with the FCC to be the VE session manager
~~
E1E04 (D) [97.509, 97.525]
What is required to be accredited as a Volunteer Examiner?
A. Each General, Advanced and Amateur Extra class operator is automatically accredited as a VE when the license is granted
B. The amateur operator applying must pass a VE examination administered by the FCC Enforcement Bureau
C. The prospective VE must obtain accreditation from the FCC
D. A VEC must confirm that the VE applicant meets FCC requirements to serve as an examiner
~~
E1E05 (B) [97.509(j)]
What must the VE team do with the application form if the examinee does not pass the exam?
A. Maintain the application form with the VEC?s records
B. Return the application document to the examinee
C. Send the application form to the FCC and inform the FCC of the grade
D. Destroy the application form
~~
E1E06 (C) [97.509]
Who is responsible for the proper conduct and necessary supervision during an amateur operator license examination session?
A. The VEC coordinating the session
B. The designated monitoring VE
C. Each administering VE
D. Only the VE session manager
~~
E1E07 (B) [97.509, 97.511]
What should a VE do if a candidate fails to comply with the examiner?s instructions during an amateur operator license examination?
A. Warn the candidate that continued failure to comply will result in termination of the examination
B. Immediately terminate the candidate?s examination
C. Allow the candidate to complete the examination, but invalidate the results
D. Immediately terminate everyone?s examination and close the session
~~
E1E08 (C) [97.509]
To which of the following examinees may a VE not administer an examination?
A. Employees of the VE
B. Friends of the VE
C. Relatives of the VE as listed in the FCC rules
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1E09 (A) [97.509]
What may be the penalty for a VE who fraudulently administers or certifies an examination?
A. Revocation of the VE?s amateur station license grant and the suspension of the VE?s amateur operator license grant
B. A fine of up to $1,000 per occurrence
C. A sentence of up to one year in prison
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1E10 (C) [97.509(m)]
What must the administering VEs do after the administration of a successful examination for an amateur operator license?
A. They must collect and send the documents directly to the FCC
B. They must collect and submit the documents to the coordinating VEC for grading
C. They must submit the application document to the coordinating VEC according to the coordinating VEC instructions
D. They must return the documents to the applicant for submission to the FCC according to the FCC instructions
~~
E1E11 (B) [97.509(i)]
What must the VE team do if an examinee scores a passing grade on all examination elements needed for an upgrade or new license?
A. Photocopy all examination documents and forward them to the FCC for processing
B. Three VEs must certify that the examinee is qualified for the license grant and that they have complied with the administering VE requirements
C. Issue the examinee the new or upgrade license
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1F Miscellaneous rules: external RF power amplifiers; prohibited communications; spread spectrum; auxiliary stations; Canadian amateurs operating in the US; special temporary authority

E1F01 (B) [97.305]
On what frequencies are spread spectrum transmissions permitted?
A. Only on amateur frequencies above 50 MHz
B. Only on amateur frequencies above 222 MHz
C. Only on amateur frequencies above 420 MHz
D. Only on amateur frequencies above 144 MHz
~~
E1F02 (C) [97.107]
What privileges are authorized in the US to persons holding an amateur service license granted by the government of Canada?
A. None, they must obtain a US license
B. Full privileges of the General class license on the 80-, 40-, 20-, 15-, and 10-meter bands
C. The operating terms and conditions of the Canadian amateur service license, not to exceed US Amateur Extra class license privileges
D. Full privileges, up to and including those of the Amateur Extra class license, on the 80-, 40-, 20-, 15-, and 10-meter bands
~~
E1F03 (D) [97.315]
Under what circumstances may a dealer sell an external RF power amplifier capable of operation below 144 MHz if it has not been granted FCC certification?
A. Gain is less than 23 dB when driven by power of 10 watts or less
B. The equipment dealer assembled it from a kit
C. It was manufactured and certificated in a country which has a reciprocal certification agreement with the FCC
D. The amplifier is constructed or modified by an amateur radio operator for use at an amateur station
~~
E1F04 (A) [97.3]
Which of the following geographic descriptions approximately describes "Line A"?
A. A line roughly parallel to and south of the border between the US and Canada
B. A line roughly parallel to and west of the US Atlantic coastline
C. A line roughly parallel to and north of the border between the US and Mexico
D. A line roughly parallel to and east of the US Pacific coastline
~~
E1F05 (D) [97.303]
Amateur stations may not transmit in which of the following frequency segments if they are located in the contiguous 48 states and north of Line A?
A. 440 MHz - 450 MHz
B. 53 MHz - 54 MHz
C. 222 MHz - 223 MHz
D. 420 MHz - 430 MHz
~~
E1F06 (A) [1.931]
Under what circumstances might the FCC issue a Special Temporary Authority (STA) to an amateur station?
A. To provide for experimental amateur communications
B. To allow use of a special event call sign
C. To allow a VE group with less than three VEs to administer examinations in a remote, sparsely populated area
D. To allow a licensee who has passed an upgrade exam to operate with upgraded privileges while waiting for posting on the FCC database
~~
E1F07 (D) [97.113]
When may an amateur station send a message to a business?
A. When the pecuniary interest of the amateur or his or her employer is less than $25
B. When the pecuniary interest of the amateur or his or her employer is less than $50
C. At no time
D. When neither the amateur nor their employer has a pecuniary interest in the communications
~~
E1F08 (A) [97.113(c)]
Which of the following types of amateur station communications are prohibited?
A. Communications transmitted for hire or material compensation, except as otherwise provided in the rules
B. Communications that have political content, except as allowed by the Fairness Doctrine
C. Communications that have religious content
D. Communications in a language other than English
~~
E1F09 (C) [FCC Part 97.113(a)(4)]
Which of the following cannot be transmitted over an amateur radio mesh network?
A. Third party traffic
B. Email
C. Messages encoded to obscure their meaning
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E1F10 (B) [97.201]
Who may be the control operator of an auxiliary station?
A. Any licensed amateur operator
B. Only Technician, General, Advanced, or Amateur Extra class operators
C. Only General, Advanced, or Amateur Extra class operators
D. Only Amateur Extra class operators
~~
E1F11 (D) [97.317]
Which of the following best describes one of the standards that must be met by an external RF power amplifier if it is to qualify for a grant of FCC certification?
A. It must produce full legal output when driven by not more than 5 watts of mean RF input power
B. It must have received an Underwriters Laboratory certification for electrical safety as well as having met IEEE standard 14.101(B)
C. It must exhibit a gain of less than 23 dB when driven by 10 watts or less
D. It must satisfy the FCC?s spurious emission standards when operated at the lesser of 1500 watts or its full output power
~~
SUBELEMENT E2 - OPERATING PROCEDURES [5 Exam Questions - 5 Groups]

E2A Amateur radio in space: amateur satellites; orbital mechanics; frequencies and modes; satellite hardware; satellite operations

E2A01 (C)
What is the direction of an ascending pass for an amateur satellite?
A. From west to east
B. From east to west
C. From south to north
D. From north to south
~~
E2A02 (D)
Which of the following is characteristic of an inverting linear transponder?
A. Doppler shift is reduced because the uplink and downlink shifts are in opposite directions
B. Signal position in the band is reversed
C. Upper sideband on the uplink becomes lower sideband on the downlink, and vice versa
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2A03 (D)
How is an upload signal processed by an inverting linear transponder?
A. The signal is detected and remodulated on the reverse sideband
B. The signal is passed through a nonlinear filter
C. The signal is reduced to I and Q components, and the Q component is filtered out
D. The signal is mixed with a local oscillator signal and the difference product is transmitted
~~
E2A04 (B)
What is meant by the ?mode? of an amateur radio satellite?
A. Whether the satellite is in a low earth or geostationary orbit
B. The satellite?s uplink and downlink frequency bands
C. The satellite?s orientation with respect to the Earth
D. Whether the satellite is in a polar or equatorial orbit
~~
E2A05 (D)
What do the letters in a satellite?s mode designator specify?
A. Power limits for uplink and downlink transmissions
B. The location of the ground control station
C. The polarization of uplink and downlink signals
D. The uplink and downlink frequency ranges
~~
E2A06 (A)
What are Keplerian elements?
A. Parameters that define the orbit of a satellite
B. Phase reversing elements in a Yagi antenna
C. High-emission heater filaments used in magnetron tubes
D. Encrypting codes used for spread spectrum modulation
~~
E2A07 (D)
Which of the following types of signals can be relayed through a linear transponder?
A. FM and CW
B. SSB and SSTV
C. PSK and packet
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2A08 (B)
Why should effective radiated power (ERP) be limited to a satellite that uses a linear transponder?
A. To prevent creating errors in the satellite telemetry
B. To avoid reducing the downlink power to all other users
C. To prevent the satellite from emitting out-of-band signals
D. To avoid interfering with terrestrial QSOs
~~
E2A09 (A)
What do the terms ?L band? and ?S band? specify?
A. The 23- and 13-centimeter bands
B. The 2-meter and 70-centimeter bands
C. FM and digital store-and-forward systems
D. Which sideband to use
~~
E2A10 (B)
What type of satellite appears to stay in one position in the sky?
A. HEO
B. Geostationary
C. Geomagnetic
D. LEO
~~
E2A11 (B)
What type of antenna can be used to minimize the effects of spin modulation and Faraday rotation?
A. A linearly polarized antenna
B. A circularly polarized antenna
C. An isotropic antenna
D. A log-periodic dipole array
~~
E2A12 (C)
What is the purpose of digital store-and-forward functions on an amateur radio satellite?
A. To upload operational software for the transponder
B. To delay download of telemetry between satellites
C. To hold digital messages in the satellite for later download
D. To relay messages between satellites
~~
E2A13 Question Deleted (section not renumbered)
~~
E2B Television practices: fast-scan television standards and techniques; slow scan television standards and techniques

E2B01 (A)
In digital television, what does a coding rate of 3/4 mean?
A. 25% of the data sent is forward error correction data
B. Data compression reduces data rate by 3/4
C. 1/4 of the time interval is used as a guard interval
D. Three, four-bit words are used to transmit each pixel
~~
E2B02 (C)
How many horizontal lines make up a fast-scan (NTSC) television frame?
A. 30
B. 60
C. 525
D. 1080
~~
E2B03 (D)
How is an interlaced scanning pattern generated in a fast-scan (NTSC) television system?
A. By scanning two fields simultaneously
B. By scanning each field from bottom-to-top
C. By scanning lines from left-to-right in one field and right-to-left in the next
D. By scanning odd-numbered lines in one field and even-numbered lines in the next
~~
E2B04 (A)
How is color information sent in analog SSTV?
A. Color lines are sent sequentially
B. Color information is sent on a 2.8 kHz subcarrier
C. Color is sent in a color burst at the end of each line
D. Color is amplitude modulated on the frequency modulated intensity signal
~~
E2B05 (C)
Which of the following describes the use of vestigial sideband in analog fast-scan TV transmissions?
A. The vestigial sideband carries the audio information
B. The vestigial sideband contains chroma information
C. Vestigial sideband reduces the bandwidth while increasing the fidelity of low frequency video components
D. Vestigial sideband provides high frequency emphasis to sharpen the picture
~~
E2B06 (A)
What is vestigial sideband modulation?
A. Amplitude modulation in which one complete sideband and a portion of the other are transmitted
B. A type of modulation in which one sideband is inverted
C. Narrow-band FM modulation achieved by filtering one sideband from the audio before frequency modulating the carrier
D. Spread spectrum modulation achieved by applying FM modulation following single sideband amplitude modulation
~~
E2B07 (B)
Which types of modulation are used for amateur television DVB-T signals?
A. FM and FSK
B. QAM and QPSK
C. AM and OOK
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2B08 (A)
What technique allows commercial analog TV receivers to be used for fast-scan TV operations on the 70-centimeter band?
A. Transmitting on channels shared with cable TV
B. Using converted satellite TV dishes
C. Transmitting on the abandoned TV channel 2
D. Using USB and demodulating the signal with a computer sound card
~~
E2B09 (D)
What kind of receiver can be used to receive and decode SSTV using the Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) protocol?
A. CDMA
B. AREDN
C. AM
D. SSB
~~
E2B10 (A)
What aspect of an analog slow-scan television signal encodes the brightness of the picture?
A. Tone frequency
B. Tone amplitude
C. Sync amplitude
D. Sync frequency
~~
E2B11 (B)
What is the function of the vertical interval signaling (VIS) code sent as part of an SSTV transmission?
A. To lock the color burst oscillator in color SSTV images
B. To identify the SSTV mode being used
C. To provide vertical synchronization
D. To identify the call sign of the station transmitting
~~
E2B12 (A)
What signals SSTV receiving software to begin a new picture line?
A. Specific tone frequencies
B. Elapsed time
C. Specific tone amplitudes
D. A two-tone signal
~~
E2C Contest and DX operating; remote operation techniques; log data format; contact confirmation; RF network systems

E2C01 (D)
What indicator is required to be used by US-licensed operators when operating a station via remote control and the remote transmitter is located in the US?
A. / followed by the USPS two-letter abbreviation for the state in which the remote station is located
B. /R# where # is the district of the remote station
C. / followed by the ARRL Section of the remote station
D. No additional indicator is required
~~
E2C02 (C)
Which of the following file formats is used for exchanging amateur radio log data?
A. NEC
B. ARLD
C. ADIF
D. OCF
~~
E2C03 (A)
From which of the following bands is amateur radio contesting generally excluded?
A. 30 meters
B. 6 meters
C. 70 centimeters
D. 33 centimeters
~~
E2C04 (B)
Which of the following frequencies can be used for amateur radio mesh networks?
A. HF frequencies where digital communications are permitted
B. Frequencies shared with various unlicensed wireless data services
C. Cable TV channels 41-43
D. The 60-meter band channel centered on 5373 kHz
~~
E2C05 (B)
What is the function of a DX QSL Manager?
A. Allocate frequencies for DXpeditions
B. Handle the receiving and sending of confirmations for a DX station
C. Run a net to allow many stations to contact a rare DX station
D. Communicate to a DXpedition about propagation, band openings, pileup conditions, etc.
~~
E2C06 (C)
During a VHF/UHF contest, in which band segment would you expect to find the highest level of SSB or CW activity?
A. At the top of each band, usually in a segment reserved for contests
B. In the middle of each band, usually on the national calling frequency
C. In the weak signal segment of the band, with most of the activity near the calling frequency
D. In the middle of the band, usually 25 kHz above the national calling frequency
~~
E2C07 (A)
What is the Cabrillo format?
A. A standard for submission of electronic contest logs
B. A method of exchanging information during a contest QSO
C. The most common set of contest rules
D. A digital protocol specifically designed for rapid contest exchanges
~~
E2C08 (D)
Which of the following contacts may be confirmed through the Logbook of The World (LoTW)?
A. Special event contacts between stations in the US
B. Contacts between a US station and a non-US station
C. Contacts for Worked All States credit
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2C09 (C)
What type of equipment is commonly used to implement an amateur radio mesh network?
A. A 2-meter VHF transceiver with a 1,200-baud modem
B. A computer running EchoLink to provide interface from the radio to the internet
C. A wireless router running custom firmware
D. A 440 MHz transceiver with a 9,600-baud modem
~~
E2C10 (D)
Why do DX stations often transmit and receive on different frequencies?
A. Because the DX station may be transmitting on a frequency that is prohibited to some responding stations
B. To separate the calling stations from the DX station
C. To improve operating efficiency by reducing interference
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2C11 (A)
How should you generally identify your station when attempting to contact a DX station during a contest or in a pileup?
A. Send your full call sign once or twice
B. Send only the last two letters of your call sign until you make contact
C. Send your full call sign and grid square
D. Send the call sign of the DX station three times, the words ?this is,? then your call sign three times
~~
E2C12 (C)
What indicates the delay between a control operator action and the corresponding change in the transmitted signal?
A. Jitter
B. Hang time
C. Latency
D. Anti-VOX
~~
E2D Operating methods: digital modes and procedures for VHF and UHF; APRS; EME procedures; meteor scatter procedures

E2D01 (B)
Which of the following digital modes is designed for meteor scatter communications?
A. WSPR
B. MSK144
C. Hellschreiber
D. APRS
~~
E2D02 (D)
What information replaces signal-to-noise ratio when using the FT8 or FT4 modes in a VHF contest?
A. RST report
B. State abbreviation
C. Serial number
D. Grid square
~~
E2D03 (D)
Which of the following digital modes is designed for EME communications?
A. MSK144
B. PACTOR III
C. WSPR
D. Q65
~~
E2D04 (C)
What technology is used for real-time tracking of balloons carrying amateur radio transmitters?
A. FT8
B. Bandwidth compressed LORAN
C. APRS
D. PACTOR III
~~
E2D05 (B)
What is the characteristic of the JT65 mode?
A. Uses only a 65 Hz bandwidth
B. Decodes signals with a very low signal-to-noise ratio
C. Symbol rate is 65 baud
D. Permits fast-scan TV transmissions over narrow bandwidth
~~
E2D06 (A)
Which of the following is a method for establishing EME contacts?
A. Time-synchronous transmissions alternating between stations
B. Storing and forwarding digital messages
C. Judging optimum transmission times by monitoring beacons reflected from the moon
D. High-speed CW identification to avoid fading
~~
E2D07 (C)
What digital protocol is used by APRS?
A. PACTOR
B. QAM
C. AX.25
D. AMTOR
~~
E2D08 (C)
What type of packet frame is used to transmit APRS beacon data?
A. Acknowledgement
B. Burst
C. Unnumbered Information
D. Connect
~~
E2D09 (A)
What type of modulation is used by JT65?
A. Multitone AFSK
B. PSK
C. RTTY
D. QAM
~~
E2D10 (C)
What does the packet path WIDE3-1 designate?
A. Three stations are allowed on frequency, one transmitting at a time
B. Three subcarriers are permitted, subcarrier one is being used
C. Three digipeater hops are requested with one remaining
D. Three internet gateway stations may receive one transmission
~~
E2D11 (D)
How do APRS stations relay data?
A. By packet ACK/NAK relay
B. By C4FM repeaters
C. By DMR repeaters
D. By packet digipeaters
~~
E2E Operating methods: digital modes and procedures for HF

E2E01 (B)
Which of the following types of modulation is used for data emissions below 30 MHz?
A. DTMF tones modulating an FM signal
B. FSK
C. Pulse modulation
D. Spread spectrum
~~
E2E02 (B)
Which of the following synchronizes WSJT-X digital mode transmit/receive timing?
A. Alignment of frequency shifts
B. Synchronization of computer clocks
C. Sync-field transmission
D. Sync-pulse timing
~~
E2E03 (B)
To what does the "4" in FT4 refer?
A. Multiples of 4 bits of user information
B. Four-tone continuous-phase frequency shift keying
C. Four transmit/receive cycles per minute
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2E04 (D)
Which of the following is characteristic of the FST4 mode?
A. Four-tone Gaussian frequency shift keying
B. Variable transmit/receive periods
C. Seven different tone spacings
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2E05 (A)
Which of these digital modes does not support keyboard-to-keyboard operation?
A. WSPR
B. RTTY
C. PSK31
D. MFSK16
~~
E2E06 (C)
What is the length of an FT8 transmission cycle?
A. It varies with the amount of data
B. 8 seconds
C. 15 seconds
D. 30 seconds
~~
E2E07 (C)
How does Q65 differ from JT65?
A. Keyboard-to keyboard operation is supported
B. Quadrature modulation is used
C. Multiple receive cycles are averaged
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2E08 (B)
Which of the following HF digital modes can be used to transfer binary files?
A. PSK31
B. PACTOR
C. RTTY
D. AMTOR
~~
E2E09 (D)
Which of the following HF digital modes uses variable-length character coding?
A. RTTY
B. PACTOR
C. MT63
D. PSK31
~~
E2E10 (C)
Which of these digital modes has the narrowest bandwidth?
A. MFSK16
B. 170 Hz shift, 45-baud RTTY
C. FT8
D. PACTOR IV
~~
E2E11 (A)
What is the difference between direct FSK and audio FSK?
A. Direct FSK modulates the transmitter VFO
B. Direct FSK occupies less bandwidth
C. Direct FSK can transmit higher baud rates
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E2E12 (A)
How do ALE stations establish contact?
A. ALE constantly scans a list of frequencies, activating the radio when the designated call sign is received
B. ALE radios monitor an internet site for the frequency they are being paged on
C. ALE radios send a constant tone code to establish a frequency for future use
D. ALE radios activate when they hear their signal echoed by back scatter
~~
E2E13 (D)
Which of these digital modes has the highest data throughput under clear communication conditions?
A. MFSK16
B. 170 Hz shift, 45 baud RTTY
C. FT8
D. PACTOR IV
~~
SUBELEMENT E3 - RADIO WAVE PROPAGATION [3 Exam Questions - 3 Groups]

E3A Electromagnetic Waves and Specialized Propagation: Earth-Moon-Earth (EME) communications; meteor scatter; microwave tropospheric and scatter propagation; auroral propagation; daily variation of ionospheric propagation; circular polarization

E3A01 (D)
What is the approximate maximum separation measured along the surface of the Earth between two stations communicating by EME?
A. 2,000 miles, if the moon is at perigee
B. 2,000 miles, if the moon is at apogee
C. 5,000 miles, if the moon is at perigee
D. 12,000 miles, if the moon is ?visible? by both stations
~~
E3A02 (B)
What characterizes libration fading of an EME signal?
A. A slow change in the pitch of the CW signal
B. A fluttery, irregular fading
C. A gradual loss of signal as the sun rises
D. The returning echo is several hertz lower in frequency than the transmitted signal
~~
E3A03 (A)
When scheduling EME contacts, which of these conditions will generally result in the least path loss?
A. When the Moon is at perigee
B. When the Moon is full
C. When the Moon is at apogee
D. When the MUF is above 30 MHz
~~
E3A04 (D)
In what direction does an electromagnetic wave travel?
A. It depends on the phase angle of the magnetic field
B. It travels parallel to the electric and magnetic fields
C. It depends on the phase angle of the electric field
D. It travels at a right angle to the electric and magnetic fields
~~
E3A05 (C)
How are the component fields of an electromagnetic wave oriented?
A. They are parallel
B. They are tangential
C. They are at right angles
D. They are 90 degrees out of phase
~~
E3A06 (B)
What should be done to continue a long-distance contact when the MUF for that path decreases due to darkness?
A. Switch to a higher frequency HF band
B. Switch to a lower frequency HF band
C. Change to an antenna with a higher takeoff angle
D. Change to an antenna with greater beam width
~~
E3A07 (C)
Atmospheric ducts capable of propagating microwave signals often form over what geographic feature?
A. Mountain ranges
B. Stratocumulus clouds
C. Large bodies of water
D. Nimbus clouds
~~
E3A08 (A)
When a meteor strikes the Earth?s atmosphere, a linear ionized region is formed at what region of the ionosphere?
A. The E region
B. The F1 region
C. The F2 region
D. The D region
~~
E3A09 (C)
Which of the following frequency ranges is most suited for meteor-scatter communications?
A. 1.8 MHz - 1.9 MHz
B. 10 MHz - 14 MHz
C. 28 MHz - 148 MHz
D. 220 MHz - 450 MHz
~~
E3A10 (D)
What determines the speed of electromagnetic waves through a medium?
A. Resistance and reactance
B. Evanescence
C. Birefringence
D. The index of refraction
~~
E3A11 (B)
What is a typical range for tropospheric duct propagation of microwave signals?
A. 10 miles to 50 miles
B. 100 miles to 300 miles
C. 1,200 miles
D. 2,500 miles
~~
E3A12 (C)
What is most likely to result in auroral propagation?
A. Meteor showers
B. Quiet geomagnetic conditions
C. Severe geomagnetic storms
D. Extreme low-pressure areas in polar regions
~~
E3A13 (A)
Which of these emission modes is best for auroral propagation?
A. CW
B. SSB
C. FM
D. RTTY
~~
E3A14 (B)
What are circularly polarized electromagnetic waves?
A. Waves with an electric field bent into a circular shape
B. Waves with rotating electric and magnetic fields
C. Waves that circle Earth
D. Waves produced by a loop antenna
~~
E3B Transequatorial propagation; long-path propagation; ordinary and extraordinary waves; chordal hop; sporadic-E mechanisms; ground-wave propagation

E3B01 (A)
Where is transequatorial propagation (TEP) most likely to occur?
A. Between points separated by 2,000 miles to 3,000 miles over a path perpendicular to the geomagnetic equator
B. Between points located 1,500 miles to 2,000 miles apart on the geomagnetic equator
C. Between points located at each other?s antipode
D. Through the region where the terminator crosses the geographic equator
~~
E3B02 (C)
What is the approximate maximum range for signals using transequatorial propagation?
A. 1,000 miles
B. 2,500 miles
C. 5,000 miles
D. 7,500 miles
~~
E3B03 (C)
At what time of day is transequatorial propagation most likely to occur?
A. Morning
B. Noon
C. Afternoon or early evening
D. Late at night
~~
E3B04 (B)
What are ?extraordinary? and ?ordinary? waves?
A. Extraordinary waves exhibit rare long-skip propagation, compared to ordinary waves, which travel shorter distances
B. Independently propagating, elliptically polarized waves created in the ionosphere
C. Long-path and short-path waves
D. Refracted rays and reflected waves
~~
E3B05 (D)
Which of the following paths is most likely to support long-distance propagation on 160 meters?
A. A path entirely in sunlight
B. Paths at high latitudes
C. A direct north-south path
D. A path entirely in darkness
~~
E3B06 (B)
On which of the following amateur bands is long-path propagation most frequent?
A. 160 meters and 80 meters
B. 40 meters and 20 meters
C. 10 meters and 6 meters
D. 6 meters and 2 meters
~~
E3B07 (C)
What effect does lowering a signal?s transmitted elevation angle have on ionospheric HF skip propagation?
A. Faraday rotation becomes stronger
B. The MUF decreases
C. The distance covered by each hop increases
D. The critical frequency increases
~~
E3B08 (C)
How does the maximum range of ground-wave propagation change when the signal frequency is increased?
A. It stays the same
B. It increases
C. It decreases
D. It peaks at roughly 8 MHz
~~
E3B09 (A)
At what time of year is sporadic-E propagation most likely to occur?
A. Around the solstices, especially the summer solstice
B. Around the solstices, especially the winter solstice
C. Around the equinoxes, especially the spring equinox
D. Around the equinoxes, especially the fall equinox
~~
E3B10 (A)
What is the effect of chordal-hop propagation?
A. The signal experiences less loss compared to multi-hop propagation, which uses Earth as a reflector
B. The MUF for chordal-hop propagation is much lower than for normal skip propagation
C. Atmospheric noise is reduced in the direction of chordal-hop propagation
D. Signals travel faster along ionospheric chords
~~
E3B11 (D)
At what time of day is sporadic-E propagation most likely to occur?
A. Between midnight and sunrise
B. Between sunset and midnight
C. Between sunset and sunrise
D. Between sunrise and sunset
~~
E3B12 (B)
What is chordal-hop propagation?
A. Propagation away from the great circle bearing between stations
B. Successive ionospheric refractions without an intermediate reflection from the ground
C. Propagation across the geomagnetic equator
D. Signals reflected back toward the transmitting station
~~
E3B13 (A)
What type of polarization is supported by ground-wave propagation?
A. Vertical
B. Horizontal
C. Circular
D. Elliptical
~~
E3C Propagation prediction and reporting: radio horizon; effects of space-weather phenomena

E3C01 (D)
What is the cause of short-term radio blackouts?
A. Coronal mass ejections
B. Sunspots on the solar equator
C. North-oriented interplanetary magnetic field
D. Solar flares
~~
E3C02 (A)
What is indicated by a rising A-index or K-index?
A. Increasing disturbance of the geomagnetic field
B. Decreasing disturbance of the geomagnetic field
C. Higher levels of solar UV radiation
D. An increase in the critical frequency
~~
E3C03 (B)
Which of the following signal paths is most likely to experience high levels of absorption when the A-index or K-index is elevated?
A. Transequatorial
B. Through the auroral oval
C. Sporadic-E
D. NVIS
~~
E3C04 (C)
What does the value of Bz (B sub z) represent?
A. Geomagnetic field stability
B. Critical frequency for vertical transmissions
C. North-south strength of the interplanetary magnetic field
D. Duration of long-delayed echoes
~~
E3C05 (A)
What orientation of Bz (B sub z) increases the likelihood that charged particles from the Sun will cause disturbed conditions?
A. Southward
B. Northward
C. Eastward
D. Westward
~~
E3C06 (A)
How does the VHF/UHF radio horizon compare to the geographic horizon?
A. It is approximately 15 percent farther
B. It is approximately 20 percent nearer
C. It is approximately 50 percent farther
D. They are approximately the same
~~
E3C07 (D)
Which of the following indicates the greatest solar flare intensity?
A. Class A
B. Class Z
C. Class M
D. Class X
~~
E3C08 (D)
Which of the following is the space-weather term for an extreme geomagnetic storm?
A. B9
B. X5
C. M9
D. G5
~~
E3C09 (D)
What type of data is reported by amateur radio propagation reporting networks?
A. Solar flux
B. Electric field intensity
C. Magnetic declination
D. Digital-mode and CW signals
~~
E3C10 (B)
What does the 304A solar parameter measure?
A. The ratio of X-ray flux to radio flux, correlated to sunspot number
B. UV emissions at 304 angstroms, correlated to the solar flux index
C. The solar wind velocity at an angle of 304 degrees from the solar equator, correlated to geomagnetic storms
D. The solar emission at 304 GHz, correlated to X-ray flare levels
~~
E3C11 (C)
What does VOACAP software model?
A. AC voltage and impedance
B. VHF radio propagation
C. HF propagation
D. AC current and impedance
~~
E3C12 (B)
Which of the following is indicated by a sudden rise in radio background noise across a large portion of the HF spectrum?
A. A temperature inversion has occurred
B. A coronal mass ejection impact or a solar flare has occurred
C. Transequatorial propagation on 6 meters is likely
D. Long-path propagation on the higher HF bands is likely
~~
SUBELEMENT E4 - AMATEUR PRACTICES [5 Exam Questions - 5 Groups]

E4A Test equipment: analog and digital instruments; spectrum analyzers; antenna analyzers; oscilloscopes; RF measurements

E4A01 (A)
Which of the following limits the highest frequency signal that can be accurately displayed on a digital oscilloscope?
A. Sampling rate of the analog-to-digital converter
B. Analog-to-digital converter reference frequency
C. Q of the circuit
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4A02 (B)
Which of the following parameters does a spectrum analyzer display on the vertical and horizontal axes?
A. Signal amplitude and time
B. Signal amplitude and frequency
C. SWR and frequency
D. SWR and time
~~
E4A03 (B)
Which of the following test instruments is used to display spurious signals and/or intermodulation distortion products generated by an SSB transmitter?
A. Differential resolver
B. Spectrum analyzer
C. Logic analyzer
D. Network analyzer
~~
E4A04 (A)
How is compensation of an oscilloscope probe performed?
A. A square wave is displayed, and the probe is adjusted until the horizontal portions of the displayed wave are as nearly flat as possible
B. A high frequency sine wave is displayed, and the probe is adjusted for maximum amplitude
C. A frequency standard is displayed, and the probe is adjusted until the deflection time is accurate
D. A DC voltage standard is displayed, and the probe is adjusted until the displayed voltage is accurate
~~
E4A05 (D)
What is the purpose of using a prescaler with a frequency counter?
A. Amplify low-level signals for more accurate counting
B. Multiply a higher frequency signal so a low-frequency counter can display the operating frequency
C. Prevent oscillation in a low-frequency counter circuit
D. Reduce the signal frequency to within the counter's operating range
~~
E4A06 (A)
What is the effect of aliasing on a digital oscilloscope when displaying a waveform?
A. A false, jittery low-frequency version of the waveform is displayed
B. The waveform DC offset will be inaccurate
C. Calibration of the vertical scale is no longer valid
D. Excessive blanking occurs, which prevents display of the waveform
~~
E4A07 (B)
Which of the following is an advantage of using an antenna analyzer compared to an SWR bridge?
A. Antenna analyzers automatically tune your antenna for resonance
B. Antenna analyzers compute SWR and impedance automatically
C. Antenna analyzers display a time-varying representation of the modulation envelope
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4A08 (D)
Which of the following is used to measure SWR?
A. Directional wattmeter
B. Vector network analyzer
C. Antenna analyzer
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4A09 (A)
Which of the following is good practice when using an oscilloscope probe?
A. Minimize the length of the probe's ground connection
B. Never use a high-impedance probe to measure a low-impedance circuit
C. Never use a DC-coupled probe to measure an AC circuit
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4A10 (D)
Which trigger mode is most effective when using an oscilloscope to measure a linear power supply?s output ripple?
A. Single-shot
B. Edge
C. Level
D. Line
~~
E4A11 (D)
Which of the following can be measured with an antenna analyzer?
A. Velocity factor
B. Cable length
C. Resonant frequency of a tuned circuit
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4B Measurement technique and limitations: instrument accuracy and performance limitations; probes; techniques to minimize errors; measurement of Q; instrument calibration; S parameters; vector network analyzers; RF signals

E4B01 (B)
Which of the following factors most affects the accuracy of a frequency counter?
A. Input attenuator accuracy
B. Time base accuracy
C. Decade divider accuracy
D. Temperature coefficient of the logic
~~
E4B02 (A)
What is the significance of voltmeter sensitivity expressed in ohms per volt?
A. The full scale reading of the voltmeter multiplied by its ohms per volt rating is the input impedance of the voltmeter
B. The reading in volts multiplied by the ohms per volt rating will determine the power drawn by the device under test
C. The reading in ohms divided by the ohms per volt rating will determine the voltage applied to the circuit
D. The full scale reading in amps divided by ohms per volt rating will determine the size of shunt needed
~~
E4B03 (C)
Which S parameter is equivalent to forward gain?
A. S11
B. S12
C. S21
D. S22
~~
E4B04 (A)
Which S parameter represents input port return loss or reflection coefficient (equivalent to VSWR)?
A. S11
B. S12
C. S21
D. S22
~~
E4B05 (B)
What three test loads are used to calibrate an RF vector network analyzer?
A. 50 ohms, 75 ohms, and 90 ohms
B. Short circuit, open circuit, and 50 ohms
C. Short circuit, open circuit, and resonant circuit
D. 50 ohms through 1/8 wavelength, 1/4 wavelength, and 1/2 wavelength of coaxial cable
~~
E4B06 (D)
How much power is being absorbed by the load when a directional power meter connected between a transmitter and a terminating load reads 100 watts forward power and 25 watts reflected power?
A. 100 watts
B. 125 watts
C. 112.5 watts
D. 75 watts
~~
E4B07 (A)
What do the subscripts of S parameters represent?
A. The port or ports at which measurements are made
B. The relative time between measurements
C. Relative quality of the data
D. Frequency order of the measurements
~~
E4B08 (C)
Which of the following can be used to determine the Q of a series-tuned circuit?
A. The ratio of inductive reactance to capacitive reactance
B. The frequency shift
C. The bandwidth of the circuit's frequency response
D. The resonant frequency of the circuit
~~
E4B09 (B)
Which of the following can be measured by a two-port vector network analyzer?
A. Phase noise
B. Filter frequency response
C. Pulse rise time
D. Forward power
~~
E4B10 (B)
Which of the following methods measures intermodulation distortion in an SSB transmitter?
A. Modulate the transmitter using two RF signals having non-harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a spectrum analyzer
B. Modulate the transmitter using two AF signals having non-harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a spectrum analyzer
C. Modulate the transmitter using two AF signals having harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a peak reading wattmeter
D. Modulate the transmitter using two RF signals having harmonically related frequencies and observe the RF output with a logic analyzer
~~
E4B11 (D)
Which of the following can be measured with a vector network analyzer?
A. Input impedance
B. Output impedance
C. Reflection coefficient
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4C Receiver performance: phase noise, noise floor, image rejection, minimum detectable signal (MDS), increasing signal-to-noise ratio and dynamic range, noise figure, reciprocal mixing; selectivity; SDR non-linearity; use of attenuators at low frequencies

E4C01 (D)
What is an effect of excessive phase noise in an SDR receiver?s master clock oscillator?
A. It limits the receiver?s ability to receive strong signals
B. It can affect the receiver?s frequency calibration
C. It decreases the receiver?s third-order intercept point
D. It can combine with strong signals on nearby frequencies to generate interference
~~
E4C02 (A)
Which of the following receiver circuits can be effective in eliminating interference from strong out-of-band signals?
A. A front-end filter or preselector
B. A narrow IF filter
C. A notch filter
D. A properly adjusted product detector
~~
E4C03 (C)
What is the term for the suppression in an FM receiver of one signal by another stronger signal on the same frequency?
A. Desensitization
B. Cross-modulation interference
C. Capture effect
D. Frequency discrimination
~~
E4C04 (D)
What is the noise figure of a receiver?
A. The ratio of atmospheric noise to phase noise
B. The ratio of the noise bandwidth in hertz to the theoretical bandwidth of a resistive network
C. The ratio in dB of the noise generated in the receiver to atmospheric noise
D. The ratio in dB of the noise generated by the receiver to the theoretical minimum noise
~~
E4C05 (B)
What does a receiver noise floor of -174 dBm represent?
A. The receiver noise is 6 dB above the theoretical minimum
B. The theoretical noise in a 1 Hz bandwidth at the input of a perfect receiver at room temperature
C. The noise figure of a 1 Hz bandwidth receiver
D. The receiver noise is 3 dB above theoretical minimum
~~
E4C06 (D)
How much does increasing a receiver?s bandwidth from 50 Hz to 1,000 Hz increase the receiver?s noise floor?
A. 3 dB
B. 5 dB
C. 10 dB
D. 13 dB
~~
E4C07 (B)
What does the MDS of a receiver represent?
A. The meter display sensitivity
B. The minimum discernible signal
C. The modulation distortion specification
D. The maximum detectable spectrum
~~
E4C08 (D)
An SDR receiver is overloaded when input signals exceed what level?
A. One-half of the maximum sample rate
B. One-half of the maximum sampling buffer size
C. The maximum count value of the analog-to-digital converter
D. The reference voltage of the analog-to-digital converter
~~
E4C09 (C)
Which of the following choices is a good reason for selecting a high IF for a superheterodyne HF or VHF communications receiver?
A. Fewer components in the receiver
B. Reduced drift
C. Easier for front-end circuitry to eliminate image responses
D. Improved receiver noise figure
~~
E4C10 (C)
What is an advantage of having a variety of receiver bandwidths from which to select?
A. The noise figure of the RF amplifier can be adjusted to match the modulation type, thus increasing receiver sensitivity
B. Receiver power consumption can be reduced when wider bandwidth is not required
C. Receive bandwidth can be set to match the modulation bandwidth, maximizing signal-to-noise ratio and minimizing interference
D. Multiple frequencies can be received simultaneously if desired
~~
E4C11 (D)
Why does input attenuation reduce receiver overload on the lower frequency HF bands with little or no impact on signal-to-noise ratio?
A. The attenuator has a low-pass filter to increase the strength of lower frequency signals
B. The attenuator has a noise filter to suppress interference
C. Signals are attenuated separately from the noise
D. Atmospheric noise is generally greater than internally generated noise even after attenuation
~~
E4C12 (C)
How does a narrow-band roofing filter affect receiver performance?
A. It improves sensitivity by reducing front-end noise
B. It improves intelligibility by using low Q circuitry to reduce ringing
C. It improves blocking dynamic range by attenuating strong signals near the receive frequency
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4C13 (D)
What is reciprocal mixing?
A. Two out-of-band signals mixing to generate an in-band spurious signal
B. In-phase signals cancelling in a mixer resulting in loss of receiver sensitivity
C. Two digital signals combining from alternate time slots
D. Local oscillator phase noise mixing with adjacent strong signals to create interference to desired signals
~~
E4C14 (C)
What is the purpose of the receiver IF Shift control?
A. To permit listening on a different frequency from the transmitting frequency
B. To change frequency rapidly
C. To reduce interference from stations transmitting on adjacent frequencies
D. To tune in stations slightly off frequency without changing the transmit frequency
~~
E4D Receiver performance characteristics: dynamic range; intermodulation and cross-modulation interference; third-order intercept; desensitization; preselector; sensitivity; link margin

E4D01 (A)
What is meant by the blocking dynamic range of a receiver?
A. The difference in dB between the noise floor and the level of an incoming signal that will cause 1 dB of gain compression
B. The minimum difference in dB between the levels of two FM signals that will cause one signal to block the other
C. The difference in dB between the noise floor and the third-order intercept point
D. The minimum difference in dB between two signals which produce third-order intermodulation products greater than the noise floor
~~
E4D02 (A)
Which of the following describes problems caused by poor dynamic range in a receiver?
A. Spurious signals caused by cross modulation and desensitization from strong adjacent signals
B. Oscillator instability requiring frequent retuning and loss of ability to recover the opposite sideband
C. Poor weak signal reception caused by insufficient local oscillator injection
D. Oscillator instability and severe audio distortion of all but the strongest received signals
~~
E4D03 (B)
What creates intermodulation interference between two repeaters in close proximity?
A. The output signals cause feedback in the final amplifier of one or both transmitters
B. The output signals mix in the final amplifier of one or both transmitters
C. The input frequencies are harmonically related
D. The output frequencies are harmonically related
~~
E4D04 (B)
Which of the following is used to reduce or eliminate intermodulation interference in a repeater caused by a nearby transmitter?
A. A band-pass filter in the feed line between the transmitter and receiver
B. A properly terminated circulator at the output of the repeater?s transmitter
C. Utilizing a Class C final amplifier
D. Utilizing a Class D final amplifier
~~
E4D05 (A)
What transmitter frequencies would create an intermodulation-product signal in a receiver tuned to 146.70 MHz when a nearby station transmits on 146.52 MHz?
A. 146.34 MHz and 146.61 MHz
B. 146.88 MHz and 146.34 MHz
C. 146.10 MHz and 147.30 MHz
D. 146.30 MHz and 146.90 MHz
~~
E4D06 (C)
What is the term for the reduction in receiver sensitivity caused by a strong signal near the received frequency?
A. Reciprocal mixing
B. Quieting
C. Desensitization
D. Cross modulation interference
~~
E4D07 (A)
Which of the following reduces the likelihood of receiver desensitization?
A. Insert attenuation before the first RF stage
B. Raise the receiver?s IF frequency
C. Increase the receiver?s front-end gain
D. Switch from fast AGC to slow AGC
~~
E4D08 (C)
What causes intermodulation in an electronic circuit?
A. Negative feedback
B. Lack of neutralization
C. Nonlinear circuits or devices
D. Positive feedback
~~
E4D09 (C)
What is the purpose of the preselector in a communications receiver?
A. To store frequencies that are often used
B. To provide broadband attenuation before the first RF stage to prevent intermodulation
C. To increase the rejection of signals outside the band being received
D. To allow selection of the optimum RF amplifier device
~~
E4D10 (C)
What does a third-order intercept level of 40 dBm mean with respect to receiver performance?
A. Signals less than 40 dBm will not generate audible third-order intermodulation products
B. The receiver can tolerate signals up to 40 dB above the noise floor without producing third-order intermodulation products
C. A pair of 40 dBm input signals will theoretically generate a third-order intermodulation product that has the same output amplitude as either of the input signals
D. A pair of 1 mW input signals will produce a third-order intermodulation product that is 40 dB stronger than the input signal
~~
E4D11 (A)
Why are odd-order intermodulation products, created within a receiver, of particular interest compared to other products?
A. Odd-order products of two signals in the band being received are also likely to be within the band
B. Odd-order products are more likely to overload the IF filters
C. Odd-order products are an indication of poor image rejection
D. Odd-order intermodulation produces three products for every input signal within the band of interest
~~
E4D12 (C)
What is the link margin in a system with a transmit power level of 10 W (+40 dBm), a system antenna gain of 10 dBi, a cable loss of 3 dB, a path loss of 136 dB, a receiver minimum discernable signal of -103 dBm, and a required signal-to-noise ratio of 6 dB?
A. -8dB
B. -14dB
C. +8dB
D. +14dB
~~
E4D13 (A)
What is the received signal level with a transmit power of 10 W (+40 dBm), a transmit antenna gain of 6 dBi, a receive antenna gain of 3 dBi, and a path loss of 100 dB?
A. -51 dBm
B. -54 dBm
C. -57 dBm
D. -60 dBm
~~
E4D14 (D)
What power level does a receiver minimum discernible signal of -100 dBm represent?
A. 100 microwatts
B. 0.1 microwatt
C. 0.001 microwatts
D. 0.1 picowatts
~~
E4E Noise and interference: external RF interference; electrical and computer noise; line noise; DSP filtering and noise reduction; common-mode current; surge protectors; single point ground panel

E4E01 (A)
What problem can occur when using an automatic notch filter (ANF) to remove interfering carriers while receiving CW signals?
A. Removal of the CW signal as well as the interfering carrier
B. Any nearby signal passing through the DSP system will overwhelm the desired signal
C. Excessive ringing
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4E02 (D)
Which of the following types of noise can often be reduced by a digital noise reduction?
A. Broadband white noise
B. Ignition noise
C. Power line noise
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4E03 (B)
Which of the following types of noise are removed by a noise blanker?
A. Broadband white noise
B. Impulse noise
C. Hum and buzz
D. All these choices are correct
~~
E4E04 (D)
How can conducted noise from an automobile battery charging system be suppressed?
A. By installing filter capacitors in series with the alternator leads
B. By installing a noise suppression resistor and a blocking capacitor at the battery
C. By installing a high-pass filter in series with the radio?s power lead and a low-pass filter in parallel with the antenna feed line
D. By installing ferrite chokes on the charging system leads
~~
E4E05 (B)
What is used to suppress radio frequency interference from a line-driven AC motor?
A. A high-pass filter in series with the motor?s power leads
B. A brute-force AC-line filter in series with the motor?s power leads
C. A bypass capacitor in series with the motor?s field winding
D. A bypass choke in parallel with the motor?s field winding
~~
E4E06 (C)
What type of electrical interference can be caused by computer network equipment?
A. A loud AC hum in the audio output of your station?s receiver
B. A clicking noise at intervals of a few seconds
C. The appearance of unstable modulated or unmodulated signals at specific frequencies
D. A whining-type noise that continually pulses off and on
~~